hey everyone and welcome to my channel
my name is wade patterson i'm passionate
about impactful communication and making
people better communicators and if this
is the first time you've landed on this
channel and specifically if you came
here because you're about to emcee a
wedding and you're wanting to know how
to do that process
i want you to actually go away from this
video and visit the video that's going
to pop up up at the top as well it'll be
linked below because that first video i
did on how to mc a wedding gets into the
nuts and bolts it goes through the
process from start to finish and that is
the resource you're going to want to
check out now if you've already seen
that first video and you're looking for
a bit more depth then this is the video
for you because i received a couple
questions in the comment section
regarding people who are in tricky
situations that maybe i didn't address
in that first
video
the purpose of this video is to help out
those individuals as well as anyone else
who is in the same shoes as those people
so the first question i received came
from tiz and tis said first of all thank
you for these tips now getting to my
question i've been asked to emcee a
wedding reception coming up on monday
which is four days from now not a lot of
time to prepare for emceeing a wedding
the thing is i don't know the bride or
groom personally the bride's father is
friends with my father and hence asked
me to do it so i have absolutely no
information regarding the bride in the
groom and it's a wedding that the
parents are in charge of more than the
couple themselves i don't know anybody
there i feel lost tis thank you first
off for watching my first video on how
to emcee a wedding and second for your
question because it's a great question
it's a tricky situation but i do have
some thoughts that can help you out
first off it's important to remember
that
there are couples who don't always ask a
friend or a family member to emcee their
wedding they may hire it out they may
have a professional emcee come in and in
those situations the professional mc
doesn't know the bride and the groom
personally
however
i've been to weddings where despite the
fact they don't know them they do a
fantastic job and everyone has an
amazing time now i know these are
professionals we're talking about but i
still believe you can have the same
results the first tip i have for tiz is
to reach out to the bride and groom
personally i know there's only four days
before the wedding the bride and groom
are probably incredibly busy but try to
steal even 20 minutes or a half hour of
their time because even though the
parents are the ones who seem like they
are organizing this event it's still the
bride and the groom's wedding and they
may have certain expectations or certain
wishes for their reception and you want
to make sure that you're doing whatever
possible
to
help them have an amazing evening in the
first video i suggest that you give the
bride and the groom homework things like
writing up descriptions of each member
of the wedding party and in tis's
situation it sounds like that may not be
as feasible because they probably have a
lot to worry about with four days until
their wedding therefore they may not
have time for that sort of thing the
advice to tiz is to go in prepared
the many brides and grooms
don't know what they want specifically
from their wedding reception they are
looking actually to the emcee to provide
a lot of that information of how they
should go through it so it's always a
great idea to have the approach of
asking the bride and groom what they'd
like to see and then if they ask you for
your advice be ready to come with some
ideas or
some suggestions of how the evening
could work same goes for tis if tiz is
able to meet with the bride and the
groom even for a short amount of time
see if they have any expectations and if
they don't and if they look panicked
have some backup ideas to put their
minds at ease and say no worries we're
going to get through this let's just
answer a couple questions go through
some suggestions tell me what you like
tell me what you don't and we're going
to make sure you have an amazing wedding
reception in that meeting with the bride
and the groom it's a really good idea to
attempt to get as much information as
possible again they may not have time to
do the homework on bridal party
descriptions but you can take notes and
you can ask them to read off all the
names and maybe just give a couple quick
thoughts things that come to the top of
their mind about those individuals write
those notes so that when you as the mc
are introducing the wedding party you're
not just saying a name you actually have
a little fun fact or information about
each person it's going to make the
audience happy because everyone who's
attending the wedding they'll get to
know a bit more about the bridal party
but it'll make the bridal party feel
special as well that they are not just
having their name called but a little
bit of special information being shared
with them for the whole group another
thing tiz or anyone in this situation is
going to want to do is find out who
the bride in the groom would like to see
given a special reference or shout out
oftentimes this includes family members
especially parents grandparents or other
individuals who have traveled a far away
to be there on the wedding day these
special mentions are important because
after the wedding party has come in kind
of the grand entrance they've each been
introduced perhaps you've given some
housekeeping and a bit of a format of
how the night is going to go this is an
opportunity to give those special
mentions recognized for the entire room
those individuals who the bride and
groom really want to get that special
recognition and it's going to flow
nicely into the evening other key
essentials that tiz is going to want to
find out from the bride and the groom
and again this is covered in more depth
in my first video on how to emcee a
wedding but in tis's unique situation
where there's a short amount of time i'm
just sticking to the most important
parts
things like when the dinner is going to
be and what the bride and groom's
preference is typically the head table
including the wedding party will be the
first table that goes to eat if it's a
buffet style dinner if it's plated they
will have their meal brought to them
first and then it's often the parents
table that goes but you want to check
with the bride and groom because they
may have a particular order for a
particular reason and you want to make
sure that whatever their wishes are are
what happens on their special night it's
also critical to know if there is going
to be a dj and a day of wedding planner
if there is a dj
one of the best things you can do as an
mc is introducing yourself to that
individual and coordinating because
sometimes there's a bit of overlap in
the tasks that
that a dj will handle versus what you
will handle as the mc so if you can talk
to that individual before and get on the
same page then it's going to be smooth
from that side and then when it comes to
the day of wedding planner that is a
person who will also have expectations
of how the day can go so even on the
wedding day itself if that's the first
time you talk to the day of planner
that's okay but it's an opportunity for
you as an emcee to introduce yourself
chat about what you have in mind for the
evening make sure that aligns with the
day of planner who has probably spent
more time with the bride and the groom
and
that way
again everyone is on the same page it's
going to make things as seamless as
possible other factors to consider who
is giving speeches and what is the order
of those speeches when you have that
information during the day of the
wedding you have an opportunity to
introduce yourself to the different
speakers and
give them a heads up of the order that
they will be speaking in
for people giving speeches often that's
a very nerve-wrenching thing to do like
that is something that is incredibly
scary
and if you know the order that you're
giving a speech in and you've met the mc
and there's a little bit of
communication it takes a bit of pressure
off of the individuals giving the speech
it helps them relax which again it just
adds to the overall
smoothness and how everything is
perceived by those attending the wedding
is the couple going to cut a cake is
there going to be a first dance
if there's a dj at what point does your
role transition and now the dj is taking
over things and you're sort of off the
clock these are the types of questions
that tis should be asking the bride and
the groom if tiz is able to connect with
those individuals
beforehand but
let's say worst case scenario tis is
simply unable to connect with the bride
and groom for whatever reason that's not
possible how on earth is this going to
work well as mentioned in the comment it
sounded like the parents
are really the ones leading the charge
in terms of organization of the wedding
and if that's the situation since tiz
has a bit of an in with
the father knowing the the bride or the
groom's father and there's some sort of
connection there
the next suggestion would be really
leaning into the bride or the groom's
parents talking to them getting as much
information as possible about the bride
and the groom and the entire wedding
party setting expectations of what they
believe the bride in the groom will want
for the reception how it's going to flow
getting that information from the
parents if that's the only possibility
left but again the better solution is to
talk to the bride and the groom directly
if it is possible a final piece of
advice for tiz is to not get too
stressed out this is a difficult
situation to be put in
and
you need to go into it flexibly there
are going to be things and this is even
if you're the most prepared mc in the
world there will be things
that go sideways on the wedding day that
is the way it works the food might be
later than you expect or maybe a parent
whose turn it is to give a speech is not
in the room when it's their turn and you
have to adapt that is something that is
critical for any mc to be there to enjoy
the evening if you're not having fun
the
attendees will be able to see that on
your face and that's not going to make
for a very good reception you want to be
smiling you want to be enjoying yourself
laid back casual still organized still
having everything planned but able to
roll with the punches that is the skill
set that is probably the most important
thing to have as an emcee received
another comment on that video this time
from an individual named matt b and matt
says hey man thanks for the advice
emceeing this saturday so again sort of
like tis only a few days of preparation
any tips on some jokes and when to do
them
this is such a great question matt has
asked because i truly believe humor is
one of the most important
ingredients of any speech
or emceeing role
anytime you're speaking in front of a
group of people the ability to use humor
is what separates good speakers from
great speakers and here is why
as an audience or as attendees of a
wedding when an mc steps up to the
microphone
everyone is probably wondering whether
that person is going to be any good
are they going to be enjoyable are they
going to make the evening fun there's
going to be some judgment early on
the sooner you as an mc can help the
audience laugh
it's going to relax them it's going to
put their mind at ease okay this mc
knows what he or she is doing tonight's
going to be enjoyable they've already
got me laughing it's 20 seconds in
something along those lines it is
powerful using humor is so powerful but
what's even more powerful than relaxing
your audience is relaxing yourself
because emceeing speaking in front of
people in any capacity is a scary thing
to do it is intimidating it's one of the
reasons it's people's greatest fear in
the world but the ability to use humor
and inject it almost strategically as
soon as you hear the
the audience or the attendees laughing
it instantly allows you to relax to
settle into your groove because you know
that already they're enjoying themselves
so the tip for matt here is to try and
inject that humor as early as possible
so when should matt be
try to inject that humor in order to get
that laughter well i have a few ideas
around this but typically an mc when
they first take the mic it's often to
introduce it's the grand entrance to
reintroduce the wedding party as part of
the reception again every reception is
going to be a little bit different but
this is the most common thing i have
seen in the weddings that i've attended
well announcing those names and maybe
having upbeat music is great to get the
energy up and then as the table sits
down
what's a really great strategy is
announcing and introducing each member
of the wedding party and doing the
homework beforehand just like in tis's
situation that i explained before
talking to the bride in the groom to get
some information
about each of those individuals and you
want to balance it with humor and
generally nice things about those people
the nice things are going to make
everyone it's a wedding everyone wants
to feel the love and feel special so
probably if it's a best man talking
about if it's a brother or a best friend
how much that person has meant to the
groom over the years again use the
groom's words not your own
but then get the groom to give you a
funny story or something that's a little
bit beyond an inside joke so that
everyone can participate in the humor of
it but something funny about that
individual a fun fact maybe something
that is odd that they do who knows
something that's going to poke a little
bit of fun but not make them feel upset
or uncomfortable
and those are the things that are going
to get the audience laughing really
early and it's the perfect timing
because again it's going to give you the
confidence and it's going to allow them
to relax as well after the introductions
of the wedding party and the
housekeeping items this is often an
opportunity for a short
story personal story perhaps
about how you know the bride in the
groom or something about the
circumstance of the wedding
and what i have found over time
the speakers who are funniest use
personal stories
canned jokes
they can work it's possible but it
really relies a lot on comedic timing
and how funny you are as a person and
your ability to deliver these jokes
and it's a lot riskier it's a lot
riskier often our own stories that we've
told to many different people before and
we've almost social proof them we've
seen that they derive laughter from
other individuals
those are tested stories that we know
with more confidence we can tell in
front of a bigger group and they're
probably going to get laughter as well
so if you have a great story about the
bride and the groom and your
relationship and how they asked you to
bmc or something along those lines
that may be a great opportunity to tell
a personal story get the audience
laughing
another suggestion on this point is to
not make that too long you don't want
this to turn into
the you show you as the mc it's about
the bride and the groom
but
you can inject yourself some personal
stories some personal humor and that is
another way to get the crowd laughing a
final thought when it comes to humor is
to know
the sweet spot of maybe getting close to
that edge
being a little bit edgy but definitely
not crossing the line i have
unfortunately attended weddings where
mcs have
gotten almost mean it's turned into a
roast instead of a toast
and usually that doesn't go over well
some people might find it hilarious but
the majority of those in attendance
often don't love it when it almost turns
into mean-spirited humor
and that is something you want to be
aware of things that even maybe you
think aren't offensive at all
you don't know all the individuals in
the wedding and that is something to
talk to the bride and groom about in
advance
get their
finger on the pulse of what is
acceptable some brides and grooms want
you to go as far as you can and be
really edgy and funny maybe that's why
they picked you as an mc because you are
the the comedian in the group and they
want you to be your authentic self and
that is awesome but make sure
that the bride and groom is on board
sometimes they have family members who
get offended really easily really
important to navigate that situation so
that you come prepared to make people
laugh
but not do so at the expense of others
being very upset again i hope these
additional tips on how to mc a wedding
were helpful i really encourage you if
you have not watched that first video
i've referenced a couple times
throughout this video it is linked below
please please please go watch that
because that is a deep dive on all
things and seeing a wedding some of the
things i covered in this video i cover
in that one as well but much more depth
in that other video thank you so much
for watching this video i truly
appreciate it if you haven't already
subscribed to my channel please do that
it's my full intention to create a lot
of video content on how to make you a
better and more impactful communicator
if that is something you're interested
in this is a great spot to get that
content so please subscribe like this
video comment below if it was any help
to you
and i'll catch you on the next one